setInterval(code) - update with TrustedScript (#41403)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/window/setinterval/index.md

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

> [!WARNING]

> > This method dynamically executes input passed to the `code` parameter as JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When the `code` parameter is used, this method dynamically executes its value as JavaScript.
```

Just because otherwise it may not be obvious that this isn't always the case, with this method.

### Parameters

- `func`
  - : A {{jsxref("function")}} to be executed every `delay` milliseconds.
    The first execution happens after `delay` milliseconds.
- `code`
  - : A {{domxref("TrustedScript")}} or a string of arbitrary code that is compiled and executed every `delay` milliseconds.

>     This can be used instead of passing a function, but is _highly discommended_ for the same reasons that make using {{jsxref("Global_Objects/eval", "eval()")}} a security risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This can be used instead of passing a function, but is _strongly discouraged_ for the same reasons that make using {{jsxref("Global_Objects/eval", "eval()")}} a security risk.
```

This is the only use of "discommended" in all of MDN, so consider the more commonly used "discouraged".

- `delay` {{optional_inline}}
  - : The time, in milliseconds (thousandths of a second), the timer should delay in between executions of the specified function or code.
    Defaults to 0 if not specified.
    See [Delay restrictions](#delay_restrictions) below for details on the permitted range of `delay` values.
- `arg1`, …, `argN` {{optional_inline}}
  - : Additional arguments which are passed through to the function specified by _func_ once the timer expires.

### Return value

> A positive integer (typically within the range of 1 to 2,147,483,647) that uniquely identifies the interval timer created by the call.

Author: ```suggestion
A positive integer (typically within the range of 1 to 2,147,483,647) that uniquely identifies the interval timer created by the call.

This identifier, often referred to as an "interval ID", can be passed to {{domxref("Window.clearInterval", "clearInterval()")}} to stop the repeated execution of the specified function.
```

  alert(arguments.length > 0 ? this[sProperty] : this);
};

myArray.myMethod(); // prints "zero,one,two"
myArray.myMethod(1); // prints "one"
setTimeout(myArray.myMethod, 1000); // Alerts "[object Window]" after 1 second
setTimeout(myArray.myMethod, 1500, "1"); // Alerts "undefined" after 1.5 seconds
```

You can use [arrow functions](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions) to adopt the `this` of the function in which `setTimeout()` is called (arrow functions have a lexical `this`).

You can test this with the following code.

```js
setTimeout(() => myArray.myMethod(), 1000); // Alert "zero,one,two" after 1 second
setTimeout(() => myArray.myMethod(1), 1500); // Alert "one" after 1.5 seconds
setTimeout(() => myArray.myMethod(2), 3000); // Alert "one" after 3 seconds
```

You might also use the [`Function.prototype.bind()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function/bind) method, which lets you specify the value that should be used as `this` for all calls to a given function.
That lets you bypass problems where it's unclear what `this` will be, depending on the context from which your function was called.

### Security considerations

> When used with the function parameter, the method is no more or less dangerous than any other method that can trigger code execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used with the `function` parameter, the method is no more or less dangerous than any other method that can trigger code execution.
```

While specific mechanisms are not required to address this case, you should always consider deploying a [Content Security Policy (CSP)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CSP) to harden your site.

The method can also execute arbitrary input passed in the `code` parameter.
If the input is a potentially unsafe string provided by a user, this is a possible vector for [Cross-site-scripting (XSS)](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS) attacks.
For example, the following example assumes the `scriptElement` is an executable `<script>` element, and that `untrustedCode` was provided by a user:

> ```js

Reviewer: example-bad?

const untrustedCode = "alert('Potentially evil code!');";
const id = setInterval(untrustedCode, 1000);
```

Websites with a [Content Security Policy (CSP)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CSP) will prevent such code running by default; if you need to use the method with `code` then you will first need to allow the [`unsafe-eval`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Content-Security-Policy#unsafe-eval) in your CSP [`script-src`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/script-src).

If you must allow the scripts to run you can mitigate these issues by always assigning {{domxref("TrustedScript")}} objects instead of strings, and [enforcing trusted types](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API#using_a_csp_to_enforce_trusted_types) using the [`require-trusted-types-for`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/require-trusted-types-for) CSP directive.

> This ensures that the input is passed through a transformation function, which has the chance to [sanitize](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS#sanitization) or reject the text before it is injected.

Reviewer: As we've said recently, the link to sanitization is not a good one for scripts. Not sure what we should say. Since we follow up by giving examples, maybe we could just say:

```suggestion
This ensures that the input is passed through a transformation function.
```

Author: I have nothing better to offer.
